# 2.1 - What Is 1:1

## One Sentence
A brief introduction to what 1:1 implementations exist today. 

## Notes
The technology model in education has been static for some time. There were only a few main models used. 

1. BYOD - Students are encouraged to bring their own devices to use in school. This saves the distrcit money by not having to buy a device for every students. It is also very quick way to implement and scale. The downside is you have to support a wide variety of devices, and the technology equality gap can be very wide depedning on your district. 

2. A traditional (or Single Device) 1:1 program gives every student in a grade/school/district the same device. This model has been around for as long as there has been personal computers small enough to travel with a students. Laptops, iPads, Chromebooks, Netbooks, Kindles have all been used in 1:1 programs. It creates a uniform platform for everyone to work from. It also locks the district and the student into a single platform. 

3. Computer Lab or computer area model. This setup provides a group of computers in a lab or classroom settings. This was popular with completely stationary desktops, less popular with mobile devices and laptops. 

4. Cart computing. As mobile devices became more popular and accessible in education, cart computing began to replace lab set ups. You would have a cart with 20-30 devices and that cart would be shared by the grade/school. A teacher would sign out a cart to use for a class period and have 1:1 for a specific project or task. 

## Content
