# 2.1 - What Is 1:1

1:1 is not a new or unique idea. It’s not even a result of technology. Before we had computers small enough for every student to carry one, we had textbooks that every student carried. Before that, every student had a notebook and pencil. Before that, individual chalkboards... you get the idea. A learning tool for every students is nothing new. 

But this book is about technology, so let’s start with where we are now in educational technology. What 1:1 implementations are currently being used in Kindergarten through 12th grade schools (K12)?

The technology model in education has been static for some time. We are at the point now where schools and communities are asking what’s next for 1:1. What’s the next innovation?

There are the primary models being used. 

Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) - Students are encouraged to bring their own devices to use in school. This saves the district money by not having to buy a device for every students. It is also a very quick way to implement and scale. The district can go from no devices to a 1:1 program practically over night. The downside is you have to support a wide variety of devices, and the technology equality gap can be very wide depending on your district. A student using a lasted model MacBook Pro and a student using a two year old Kindle Fire will have very different experiences and abilities with the device.  

Single Device - This is the most widely used 1:1 implementation, in my experience. This program gives every student in the grade/school/district the same device. This model has been around for as long as there has been personal computers small enough to travel with a students. Laptops, iPads, Chromebooks, Netbooks, Kindles, and many more have all been used in 1:1 programs. It creates a uniform platform for everyone to work from. It also locks the district and the student into a single platform. This makes managements much easier from the IT perspective. It gives an apparently consistent budget. And it gives an equal technology experience to all students. We'll get into the negatives of this model soon. 

Computer Lab - This setup provides a group of computers in a dedicated lab or classroom setting. This was a popular with completely stationary desktops, less popular with mobile devices and laptops. You would need to schedule your class for "computer time" to work on specific tasks. The computers weren't a regular and integrated part of the learning. 

Cart Computing - As mobile devices became more popular and wireless internet more accessible in education, cart computing began to replace lab set ups. You would have a cart with 20-30 devices and that cart would be shared by the grade/school. A teacher would sign out a cart to use for a class period and have 1:1 for a specific project or task. Again, not a regular and integrated part of the learning. 

Most districts will have some combination of these models. Your district might have a 1:1 program that consists of Single Device at the high schools, carts in lower grade, and a computer lab or two mixed in (often in the library). 

There is no one way or perfect way to have a 1:1 program. This book will make the argument for a Choose Your Own Device Model (CYOD). But, ss a school district with a limited budget, you have to work with what you have. The goal is to give students access to the best resources you can provide and make them successful in their education.