# 2.12 - It Doesn't Have to Scale

Let's talk about all the new processes and logistics you need to have to support a CYOD program. 

These arguments usually comes up when first mentioning a CYOD for the district... 

"It's great in theory to do this, but the logistics won't work. We would need more people to manage everything." 0r, "My school is too big to do something like this." 

The department is either too small, or the district is too big. Or the ambition too big. 

It's a fair argument and it’s easy to understand the appeal of everyone having the same device. It makes the life of IT staff much easier. Troubleshooting is all the same. Repairs are all the same. It's very easy to have a assembly line kind of support model with each support ticket that comes in. It’s efficient. 

CYOD looks to throw most of this out the window.

But what is the goal of your districts IT department? Should the technology be easier to manage or should the technology be easier for students to learn with? The technology is there is make learning more impactful and approachable for the students. 

The switch is difficult, and there are growing pains. As with any new program. My advice is to focus less on the processes at the start. Not every system needs to scale or be automated from the start. 

Scale is great when done properly. It lets you take a process and extrapolate it and possibly automate it so your team can do better work with a bigger impact. 

But scale and automation at the roll out phase is dangerous. It can make you compromise, and it's difficulty to scale down if you've made a mistake. 

Go back to the basics with your IT support. Track devices as they are returned, track repairs you make, track who has what. This can be done on paper or just an excel spreadsheet. 

Have regular conversations with your IT staff, administrators, teachers, and students. Find out where the pain points are and what could be done better. 

Get a better idea of what devices get what types of damage, and why kind of support your users need before scaling up. 

The more you know about how the whole process should look from experience, the better you will be able to scale and automate in the future. You will have a better understanding. 

Learn to walk before learning to fly. 
