# 2.2 - CYOD

Let's introduce a new model for an educational 1:1 program, Choose Your Own Device (CYOD).

The acronym is a play on BYOD (Bring Your Own Device), that has long been a standard in education. The acronym CYOD came from the business world. It is used at many companies in a variety of industries. When you start a job at a CYOD company, you get a choice for what hardware you want to use. 

Schools prepare students for life after graduation. By borrowing CYOD from industry, schools are providing another way to prepare students. 

CYOD has been around in schools, in some form, since 1:1 programs began. It wasn't called CYOD, and was reserved for special cases or circumstances. The model usually works like this. A district picks the device for the 1:1 program (i.e Chromebook), and gives every student the same device. The district would still purchase iPads or Windows computers for special use cases or special education. 

Why did it take a special use case for a student to get the device that best fit their needs or are most comfortable with. The option and choice of technology should be provided to every student from the start. 

Choose Your Own Device is about letting student use the technology they are comfortable and productive with. Choice in devices helps lower, maybe remove, the technology barrier to education in the classroom. 

A student spending time learning how to use a Chromebook, when they already know how to complete the task on an iPad, or Windows, or Linux, is taking away time spent on other educational tasks. When a student is using a device they already know how to use, teachers are freed to teach the lesson, rather than teach to the device. 

The lesson shouldn't need to be "how to write an essay on an iPad". It should be "how to write an essay."

------

In the beginning we followed other innovative districts by choosing to be device specific. We become an Apple district with iPads and Apple TV hardware. Over time, the G-Suite platform and low-cost Chromebooks were hard to resist, and we shifted from one platform to another. As we became more sophisticated about the use of technology in the classroom, we discovered that no single device met the needs of all learners.  We looked to outside industries to help solve this problem. Finding inspiration from the business world we developed CYOD. 

The goal of every device program is to provide students and teachers access to technology that makes learning easier, faster, and more adaptable. Forcing students to use a single device helps them understand how to work specifically with Google, or Apple, or Microsoft. But we felt that students should have a variety of options for using a device that best fits their needs, learning styles, and comfort level. 