# 2.3 - Equity Over Equality

The equity vs equality debate is everywhere in education, and society in general. Depending on your definition and interpretation, the debate will take on different meaning. Here is what I am presenting for this book, in the terms of educational technology. 

Equality is giving every student the same device. I.e. every students gets a Chromebook. All students have the same device with the same capabilities. This a perceived level playing field. 

Here is the problem... some students may have a Chromebook at home and know how to  use it well. Some students may have an iPad at home and have no idea how to use a Chromebook.

All students are treated equal  by receiving the same technology, but their skills and ability with the technology have great disparity. The end result won't be equal. 

Equity is giving every student a device they are comfortable with using. They have a built in skill and ability level with the device. If a student uses an iPad at home, they can use an iPad at school. If they have a Chromebook at home, they can use a Chromebook at school. If they have a Linux desktop at home, let the student use Linux. Students and parents  are able to decide together what device will provide the best use and lowest friction for their education. 

Equality is giving everyone the same thing. Equity is giving everyone what they need to be  successful. Choice in technology is about equity. It's about giving every student the best device for them.  
