2.5 - Bargain Devices

While on the topic of device, a quick rant about bargain or discount devices. 

Anyone who has purchased technology knows these devices. They are last year’s model. The close out inventory devices. The rock bottom prices. Often preceded with the line “we currently have a great deal running on X Device.” 

I often subscribe to the ideas of, “you get what you pay for.” Finding a great device at a bargain price can sometimes happens, but this is the exceptions, the the rule. 

If you’re going to try your luck with the “best deal,” here are a few things to keep in mind. 

- How long do you need these devices to last? 4 years? 5 years? 8 years? 
- How long the vendor or manufacturers will be supporting the device? When will you no longer be able to get OEM parts to fix the devices?
- How long will updates be pushed to devices? Will this hardware work with the next generation of software? Will it continue to work with whatever management software you use? 
- How much extra is the current model? The price different may be smaller than you think., and the quality different may be larger than you think. 

If it is last year’s model that is being pushed on you, that means the device is already in use in other districts. Reach out to other districts, or as the vendor who else has purchased these devices. Maybe they are great devices, maybe they have a high failure rate and that’s why they’re learning inventory. 

If you have the choice of getting one grade level on 1:1 with good devices or 2 grade levels on 1:1 with OK devices, choose the good devices. You'll be better off in the long run. 

I’ve seen many examples of districts being burned by this in the long run. Devices not lasting as long as they happened. Students getting out their junior and senior years of high school with sub par devices. IT departments having to do massive amounts of repairs on devices that only have 1 lifecycle year left. 

Be careful and do your homework. 

/end rant 
