# 2.6 - 1:1 Is for Everyone

A 1:1 program built on flexibility and personalization isn't just for students. Your 1:1 program should include everyone in the district. Teachers, administrators, and staff need be part of the program. A program and platform that works for everyone will be much more sustainable and have a greater change of success. 

The same technology resources and options the students have, are the resources and options the teachers have, are the resources and options the administrators have, are the resources and options the tech department have, and so on. Or reverse the logic, what the adults get, the kids get as well.

The response often heard when proposing an idea like this is, “Our staff could never do their job with the same device we give out students.” Then you need to upgrade your students’ devices. Students deserve the same resources as everyone else in the district.

Don’t single out students. It doesn’t make sense in a school district, when teachers, students, and admins all run on their own system. Teachers have Mac Computers, Students have Chromebooks, and Admins have Windows. Students don’t deserve an inferior device, or a compromise on certain functions and support because it's the "student device." 

The logistics of a district wide 1:1 program is great for IT. It will greatly simplify the strain on the IT department from a management perspective. No need to treat students and staff different when it comes to technology hardware. The systems and processes for staff is the same as with students. Simple workflow. 

It solves refresh problems. Teachers can be on the same 4 or 5 year refresh cycle as students. It makes budgeting and planning for the future much easier. And makes the refresh cycle individualized. With how much turn over and moving is done during a school year, it's difficult to stay on top of changes. The computer that used to be in room 104 is now in room 205. Was that one 3 years old or 5 years old? We bought it for Mr. Smith, but now Ms. Jane has it. Simplify the inventory by tracking a device handed to the individual, not the room. 

And since you are using a CYOD program, teachers and staff still get a choice of which device fits them best. 

Create a level technology playing field for the entire district, not just the students. 