# 2.7 - Refresh Cycle

The refresh cycle is one of the most difficult financial parts of a 1:1 program. A 1:1 program isn't a one-time expense. It's a yearly expense, and the refresh cycle will determine what that expense is.

The old way of doings things would be to create a 10 Year Technology Plan. Many school districts have these. It is a long formal document that explains when you want to buy computers, add computers, refresh equipment, and how much everything will cost.

It takes a long time to create and is rarely followed. It's almost impossible to create an accurate 10 year plan. There are too many variables over a 10 year period. Too many moving parts.

Lets change the 10 year plan to a 1 year plan that can be followed and budgeted for each year.

-----

Once everyone is in your 1:1 program and any device will work, it's time to consider the refresh cycle.

A refresh cycle is how often you will be buying devices to replace your current devices. Every device has a useful lifetime. This can be anywhere from 1 to 10 years. You need to answer the question, how long will this device be useful to the person using it until we need to give them a new device?

The most common and traditional way to do this in education is to create a 10 year plan. It is a long formal document that lays how when you want to buy computers, add computers, refresh equipment, and how this will impact learning over the next 10 years.

It takes a long time to do and is rarely followed up on. It's almost impossible to create an accurate 10 year plan. There are too many variables and you can't predict the future.

- You don't have a guaranteed budget. Budgets are based on taxes, town priorities, and the school committee. You have to hope there isn't unforeseen expenses or other departments over spending and draining the pot.
- The cost of technology changes constantly. The great deal you got on windows desktops last year, isn't available 2  years later. You are getting on the prices.
- The types of technology changes. When you started your plan Windows was the way to go. Now your district wants to flip to Apple because the school committee thinks they are better. You bought all HP products because they were the right price. HP got bought out by IBM and they no longer make desktops. Amazon entered the education market with a device you just can't pass up, but wasn't anywhere in your ten year plan.

All these situation and variables may seem far fetched, but I've seen them all happen.

The refresh cycling in a CYOD Program is flexible and based on a single year. Each year you know the grade level that needs new device and the price point for those devices.

Let's walk through a CYOD 1:1 Program in grades 5-12 with students spread across three schools. We are going to use a 4 year useful life for the device. So each device will be in circulation for 4 years then need to be replaced.

- Middle School is grades 5-6
- Junior High is grades 7-8
- High School is grades 9-12

For students, each year we will need to purchase devices for 2 grades. Grade 5 and 9 will get new devices each year. These students will then use that device for 4 years.

Teachers are cycled by the school. So year 1 of the program all Middle School teachers will get a device. Year 2, all of the teachers at the Junior High will get new device. Year 3, all teachers of grade 9-10 will get device. Year 4, all teachers of grade 11-12 will get device. Then repeat the pattern.

With this refresh cycle, we know that each year we will be buying device for 2 full grades and 2 grades with of teachers. We don't need to know 10 years into the future, only what the next year will hold for budget and device availability. 
