# 2.X - Systems Over Hardware

One Sentence

Notes
Alt Title: Build the System for Educational Technology 

Plan how the 1-1 program will actually work in the classroom and administratively. If you have a good system, you should be able to plug and play any hardware or software as Technology evolves and changes. 

1-1 technology programs are nothing new in education. Since computers first became personal/portable, the idea of giving every student a computer has been a topic in every district. It's a very appealing idea. Giving every student access to the same cutting edge technology and resources. Every student is on the same level when it comes to educational tools. Students can use the same tools that you use in the 'real world.'

Different technology is suggest based on the times (Laptops, Netbooks, iPads, Kindles, etc.). Most recently, Google's Chromebook have been at the forefront of this discussion. It's a great device and very affordable. The point of this article is not to dismiss the technology but to understand it's not the only part of the 1-1 program.

Technology in the hands of students is great. It’s a great equalizer for students. But there needs to be a platform to go with the technology. What does this mean?

When introducing any technology into a school system (not just 1-1 programs), it's necessary to have a platform or system to support the technology in place. I would argue it's more important. This system is often lost on people not working directly with set up. If the system is well built it should be transparent to the end users (students and staff).

Too many times I’ve seen well funded projects fail, because the focus was just on handing new technology to classroom.

> So what is this system, and why can't we just hand everyone a Chromebook?

The system relies more on habit and education than the actual technology. With a good system in place, the technology should be interchangeable. It could be Chromebooks, iPads, or Surfaces. The technology changes, but the system stays the same.

Components of a good system.
- Inventory
- Education and Training. Building the transition. How does teaching translate.
- Support - Both from the tech department and a self help portal
- Involvement with everyone. Get school admins, staff, and students involved and able to have input on decisions.
- Responsibility. Give the students and staff some control and responsibility for their technology. Let them take an ownership role and be allowed to fail.

---------
Technology will solve the problem is a mindset used a lot in business and education. Throwing technology at a problem will make it go away. Need your employees to be more productive? Give them a smartphone so they can work on the go. Want your students to all have access to the same information? Give every student a computer.

Along with the technology there needs to be a system and culture to support it. A system for teachers and students to get help. A self directed helpdesk and support system. This way the users can learn the little things (tips and tricks), and the technology staff can focus on school and district wide issues.

If the right systems are in place it shouldn't matter what technology is introduced into the classroom. It will succeed because the process has already been developed

Content
