# 3.1 - Student Voice

Students usually make up 80% to 85% of your districts population. Ignore such a large part of your user base as your own peril. 

Students need to be included in the process. Their feedback and perspective is incredibly powerful. Talk with them, send out surveys, observe how they use the technology, and ask them what they would want to use.  

In an earlier section, we talked about 1:1 is for everyone. The goes beyond just the device. You work with teachers and administrators to get them the tools they needs. The hardware they are comfortable, the software that helps them get the job done. The same needs to be done for students. 

And don’t use the assumption, “we know best for the students.” 

It can be as simple as sending out a survey. Get a better understanding of what the students view the device as and how they use it. Know how the students already use technology in their lives. 

Some example survey questions:
Do you have a computer in your home? What kinds?
Do you have internet access at home?
What software do you use the most for school work?
What can't you do with your school computer now that you want to?
What software or app do you want to use in school but can't?
You'll get some requests for the latest game or a video website, but you'll also get a lot of honest feedback. 

From my experience, most of the changes I have made to our management systems, policies, and purchasing have been from student requests. They are using this technology every day for the purpose we want it used for. We'd be crazy not to listen to 85% of our user base. 

In any other scenario, ignoring 85% of your user base would be crazy. But in education, it can often be the case. 
