# 4.1 - Resourcefulness Over Resources

“Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can.” Arthur Ashe

Money will always be a limiting factor in education. Working within a budget is a common constraint. For better or worse that is how it is (and education isn’t alone in this constraint). Let’s learn to work with it than have it work against us. 

There will always be a need or a want for more resources, more money, better systems, etc. Everyone wants the best for their students, their classrooms, themselves. To be successful in the long term you need to learn how to work within these constraints. 

Embrace the idea of resourcefulness over resources. This is a motto that needs to be engrained in the culture of your district, school, classroom, staff, and students. A focus on doing the best work with what is available and not what could be available. Make it work with what is possible, rather than dreaming of what if. 

You’ll be amazed what can be accomplished with what you already have, and how creative your staff, students, and community are. Shoestrings can hold up an incredible amount when everyone works together. 

There is always the opportunity to go back when funding is available and create better fixes or permanent solutions. But going through the shoestring and resourcefulness phase will give you a better understanding of what is truly needed and how your population uses it. Come to the budgeting table with a practical knowledge and be better off in the long run for it. 

Know the real problem before throwing money and resources at it. Resourcefulness. 
