# 4.3 - 1:1 Does Not Equal Always On

One Sentence

Notes

Content
“I don’t want my students on a screen all class.” It’s a common complaint heard from teachers, parents, and the community. A fear that because a student is given a device for learning, it is the only way they will learn. 

Continue to do projects, social interactions, games that get the students moving around. A device is a learning tool, not “the” learning tool. 

The argument for technology in the classroom is that it is a tool that can do some things better, not everything better. Don’t feel forced to have students do everything on the computer. 

Start with what you are comfortable with. Don’t scan every one of your worksheets and lesson plans you’ve been using for years in an effort to go digital. This is will lead to frustration and burnout. 

Start by looking at what you are currently doing, and what could be moved to digital. What makes sense to you? Start with a couple lessons. Or maybe just start with the class agenda and homework assignments being digital. Start small and let it grow. It will snowball once you get more comfortable. 

A great thing to start making digital is resource documents you give to students. Word banks, definitions, the little cheat sheets you give students are a great place to start and makes complete sense to be digital. A digital form of this won’t get lost, won’t get ruined in a backpack, and will stay with the student the entire school year (even their entire education). Digital versions are also searchable and open to add an unlimited amount of notes and context to. Digital versions will be easier for students to use and access. 
