# 4.X - The Right Software

One Sentence

Notes

Some guidelines to follow when choosing software to use in your classroom or technology programs.

- Must be student accessible. If the software or tool is not accessible to both the teacher and the student, it's not a good fit. Some examples; SMART Notebook, a tool that is only accessible to the teacher, but can't be shared with students outside of the classroom. Microsoft Work, if the students don't also have access to Microsoft Office, dont' share Word documents with them. Use what the students have access too. If it can't be used outside fo the classroom, it shouldn't be used.
- Think about offline access. Not every software you choose for your classroom needs to have an offline component, but it help. Not all students will have 24/7 internet access or even power access outside of the classroom. Take into account your student population and needs outside of the classroom. If part of a project can't be done offline, assign that as the homework part. If students need to work on things outside of the classroom, teach them how to download things at school to work on later.
- Accessibility matters.

Use software the is accessible to everyone. I mean this as a platform as well as the traditional sense. If a teacher is using a program to teach a class, make sure students have access to that same software. 

Example: A teacher does their lesson in SMART Notebook. Teachers the classs as a lecture in front of a SMART Board. AFter the class the teachers can’t share the SMART Notebook file with students, they don’t have software that can open in. If a student is absent, he can’t view the lesson from home. 

Teachers need to view their classroom as something beyond the walls. Content should be accessible from anywhere. 

A platform for everyone. If you are building a 1-1 program, make sure that teachers are on that platform as well. It frustrates me to see students on Chromebooks and teachers on MacBooks. How are they supposed to collaborate if they aren’t even using the same technology? Teachers don’t need access to software and hardware that isn’t available to students. If students are on Chromebooks with Google Apps, teachers should be using the same. 

Content