# 1.3 - Introduction

## One Sentence
What is a 1:1 program and how does it impact learning? 

## Notes
A 1:1 program is easy to start. It’s just a math probably. The number of students multiplied by the cost of each device, then write a check for that amount. Your school now has a 1:1 program. 

Building a 1:1 program that is successful, sustainable, and impactful is a very different task. And it has almost nothing to do with the device. 

One of my favorite quotes, and one that I routinely use at the start of any presentation I give to teachers, educators, staff, or administrators.

"The challenge becomes, not finding that scarce plant growing in the desert, but finding a specific plant growing in a jungle." – Neil Gaiman

## Content
A 1:1 program is easy. 

It’s just a math problem. Take the number of students you have in your school, multiply it by the cost of each device, then write a check. Your school is now 1:1. 

Building an educational technology program that has an actual impact on learning, culture, and success if much more difficult, and has little to do with the actual device you choose to use. 

One of my favorite quotes about education, and one I routinely use when giving presentations to educatator, administrator, or students is:

> "The challenge becomes, not finding that scarce plant growing in the desert, but finding a specific plant growing in a jungle." – Neil Gaiman

This is what is going on in schools today. Students are given an overwhelming amount of resources and information. It’s the educators responsibility to teach them how to use this information and learn with it. 

This is fundamentally different from when I was in school. I was taught here is the questions, now find the correct answer. I would look in the encyclopedia and maybe one other resource. 

Student today are given a question, search for the answer on the internet, and given 1000 possible answers and explainations. Students need to learn how to filter the over abondunce of information, not search for the little bit of information available. 

Just giving the student another device to use doens’t solve this problem. It only makes things worse. Students need to be given technology with an understanding of how to use it, and how to use it effectively. 

A good 1:1 program or any educational technology implementation requires a change in the wayay of thinking and a change in culture to really be successful. Otherwise you are giving kids a really expensive notebook, that will just be added to their already ovverfilled backpacks. 

Let’s change how we view, implement, and teach with educational technology and make a meaningful impact on students and their future success. 